Meanwhile, BRICS nations have united
against these Trump tariffs. External
affairs minister Dr. J. Shanka addressed
a virtual meeting today uh which was
hosted by Brazilian President Lula
Dilva. In a veiled response to the Trump
tariffs and what we've been seeing over
the last couple of months or so, uh Dr.
Jashanka reminded that economic
practices in the 21st century must be
fair, transparent and to everyone's
benefit. He also asserted that the focus
is on stabilizing international economy
and the world order and it's not about
replacing the existing world order. It's
just about having a more fair and
equitable distribution of the global
trading order.
Even in the past, our endeavor has been
to find common ground between our
respective national policies and to act
on that basis.
Today the focus is on stabilizing the
international economy and the world
order. But it is equally essential that
we turn our attention to ongoing
conflicts, not least because they have
direct developmental and supply chain
implications.
Furthermore, as we head towards the next
UN General Assembly session, the world
as a collective is seeking a stable and
predictable environment for trade and
investment.
At the same time, it is imperative that
economic practices are fair,
transparent, and to everyone's benefit.
Trade patterns and market access are
today prominent issues in the global
economic discourse. The world requires
constructive and cooperative approaches
to promote trade that is sustainable.
All right, I want to just home in on
that point that the external affairs
minister made. Uh this is his address to
the brick summit. It was a virtual
summit. It was convened by the Brazilian
president Lula Dilva. This is what the
external affairs minister uh has said
and I quote the international trading
system is based on the foundational
principles of open, fair, transparent,
non-discriminatory,
inclusive, equitable and a rules-based
approach with special and differential
treatment for developing countries.
India strongly believes that this should
be protected and nurtured. Selective
protection cannot be a global answer. I
want to go across to Sudant. Uh Sudan.
So the the the minister again being very
careful not to name America, not to name
Donald Trump. Simply saying that the
global trading system has to be fair,
transparent, non-discriminatory,
equitable and inclusive and India is a
big voter of that. How do you read it?
Well, that's right. a very well
articulated uh address by remark by uh
EMSJ Shankar and uh as you rightly said
on one end where this address talks
about economic practices need to be fair
transparent and for everyone's benefit
uh uh in fact em did uh underline the
importance of increasing barriers and uh
uh complicating transactions uh rules
based approach for international trading
system u in fact emo mentioned that how
some of the biggest trade deficit that
India has is with the bricks country
perhaps without naming China. uh em uh
did uh mention that at the same time uh
at the very start of his remark uh Zaka
he did speak about the impact of ongoing
conflict in Europe and West Asia uh on
on the global uh uh on the geopolitics
and also uh you know uh how this
volatility in trade and investment flows
extreme uh climate events and uh slowing
down of the SDG agenda. So it's a very
well articulated remarks by EMSJ Shankar
and also Zaka very important to
highlight that India did not participate
at the leaders uh level. India uh
nominated EMSJ Shankar uh minister of
external affairs uh to represent India's
position at the BRICS virtual meet
perhaps again a messaging to the uh
United States. All right. So, uh the
foreign minister making it clear that
India believes in a fair, inclusive and
equitable trading uh system and that
India is a ardent proponent of that and
it should not be uh changed or appended
in any form or fashion. Like I said,
he's not named America nor named
President Trump, but I think the
signaling was very very clear. News8.com
marked way ahead of the times of India
with 38% more users on native and social
platforms. Network 18, the undisputed
leader of news networks, way ahead of
the times.
[Music]